egdd.md, before:

# Game Name

## Elevator Pitch

*A one sentence pitch for your game. Pretend that your were pitching your game to a executive going to the elevator. You have less than 60 Seconds. Check [this resource](http://www.gameacademy.com/perfecting-indie-games-elevator-pitch/) for more information.*

## Influences (Brief)

- *Influence #1*:
  - Medium: *(Television, Games, Literature, Movies, etc.)*
  - Explanation: *In one paragraph or less, explain why this is an influence.*
- *Influence #2*:
  - Medium: *(Television, Games, Literature, Movies, etc.)*
  - Explanation: *In one paragraph or less, explain why this is an influence.*
- *Influence #3*:
  - Medium: *(Television, Games, Literature, Movies, etc.)*
  - Explanation: *In one paragraph or less, explain why this is an influence.*

## Core Gameplay Mechanics (Brief)

*Give a very high-level description of any core gameplay mechanics*

- *Gameplay Mechanic #1*
- *Gameplay Mechanic #2*
- *Gameplay Mechanic #3*
- *Gameplay Mechanic #4*

# Learning Aspects

## Learning Domains

*Briefly list any and all of the disciplines and learning domains for this subject.*

## Target Audiences

*Who are your learners?*

## Target Contexts

*Describe what kinds of formal and informal learning contexts this will be used in (e.g., courses, k-12 computer labs during free time).*

## Learning Objectives

*Remember, Learning Objectives are NOT simply topics. They are statements of observable behavior that a learner can do after the learning experience. You cannot observe someone "understanding" or "knowing" something.*

- *Short Name*: *Formal Learning Objective #1*
- *Short Name*: *Formal Learning Objective #2*
- *Short Name*: *Formal Learning Objective #3*

## Prerequisite Knowledge

*What do they need to know prior to trying this game?*

- *Prerequisite Learning Objective #1*
- *Prerequisite Learning Objective #2*

## Assessment Measures

*Describe how the learning will be assessed, e.g., pre/post multiple-choice test, or SAT, or some other instrument.*

*If proposing a new instrument, briefly and concisely list some example assessment questions.*

# What sets this project apart?

*Give some reasons why this game is not like every other game out there. Whether the learning objective is unique, the gameplay mechanics are new, or what. You should persuade the reader that your game is novel and worthy of development. Consider arguments that would be persuasive to a Venture Capitalist, Teacher, or Researcher. These might be focused on learning needs, too.*

- *Reason #1*
- *Reason #2*
- *Reason #3*
- *Reason #4*
- *etc.*

# Player Interaction Patterns and Modes

## Player Interaction Pattern

*Describe how people play your game, how many players are involved at once, how they interact with the system works, etc.*

## Player Modes

*Your game has one or more player modes. Describe each discrete mode, considering things like menus too. Generally describe the transitions between modes too.*

- *Player mode #1*: *Description*
- *Player mode #2*: *Description*
- *etc.*

# Gameplay Objectives

- *Primary Objective #1*:
    - Description: *Description*
    - Alignment: *Describe how this aligns with one or more learning objectives*
- *Primary Objective #2*:
    - Description: *Description*
    - Alignment: *Describe how this aligns with one or more learning objectives*
- *etc.*

# Procedures/Actions

*Describe the control scheme and what actions a user can take in the game.*

# Rules

*What resources are available to the player that they make use of?  How does this affect gameplay? How are these resources finite?*

# Objects/Entities

*What other things are in the world that you need to design? These may or may not directly translate to actual objects and classes.*

## Core Gameplay Mechanics (Detailed)

- *Core Gameplay Mechanic #1*: *Describe in 2 paragraphs or less, along with how it generally works*
- *Core Gameplay Mechanic #2*: *Describe in 2 paragraphs or less, along with how it generally works*
- *Core Gameplay Mechanic #3*: *Describe in 2 paragraphs or less, along with how it generally works*

    
## Feedback

*Explicitly describe what visual/audio/animation indicators there are that give players feedback on their progress towards their gameplay objectives (and ideally the learning objectives).*

*Describe what longer-term feedback you detect and give that guides the player in their learning and lets them know how they are doing in regards to the learning objectives.*

# Story and Gameplay

## Presentation of Rules

*Briefly describe how the player will learn the gameplay mechanics. Avoid using walls of text, since people will not read them. Think instead of natural ways of teaching mechanics iteratively and slowly.*

## Presentation of Content

*Briefly describe how the player will be taught the core material they are meant to learn. Avoid using walls of text, since people will not read them. Think instead of natural ways of teaching material iteratively and slowly.*

## Story (Brief)

*The Summary or TL;DR version of below*

## Storyboarding

*Go into as much detail as needs be to visually convey the Dynamics of your game. Be detailed. Create storyboards and freeze frame images that concisely capture important key elements of your game. You are strongly recommended to sketch pictures on paper and embed them here. Be sure make it clear how previously-described mechanics come through in the dynamics.*

# Assets Needed

## Aethestics

*Give a sense of the aesthetics of your game, the spirit and atmosphere. Use descriptive, evocative words that can help the reader understand the emotional response of your game.*

## Graphical

- Characters List
  - *Characters 1*
  - *Characters 2*
  - *...*
- Textures:
  - *Texture 1*
  - *Texture 2*
  - *...*
- Environment Art/Textures:
  - *Environment Texture 1*
  - *Environment Texture 2*
  - *...*


## Audio


*Game region/phase/time are ways of designating a particularly important place in the game.*

- Music List (Ambient sound)
  - *Game region/phase/time*: *Example 1*, *Example 2*
  - *Game region/phase/time*: *Example 3*, *Example 4*
  
*Game Interactions are things that trigger SFX, like character movement, hitting a spiky enemy, collecting a coin.*

- Sound List (SFX)
  - *Game Interaction*: *Example 1*, *Example 2*
  - *Game Interaction*: *Example 3*, *Example 4*


# Metadata

* Template created by Austin Cory Bart <acbart@udel.edu>, Mark Sheriff, Alec Markarian, and Benjamin Stanley.
* Version 0.0.3

Commit message:

got up to prerequisite knowledge

egdd.md, after:

# Spanish Shopping Expedition

## Elevator Pitch


Your lovely, Spanish grandmother gave you a shopping list and you need to retrieve the items - the only problem is the list in Spanish!

## Influences (Brief)

- Index the Cat:
  - Medium: Online Game
  - Explanation: Index the Cat has small levels that increase in difficulty, which this game will also have.
- Papa’s Pizzeria:
  - Medium: Online Game
  - Explanation: In Papa’s Pizzeria you are tasked with an order and you need to make a pizza that fulfills that order. Similarly, in this game you need to fulfill your grandmother’s shopping list.
- Senor Greenberg:
  - Medium: Teacher
  - Explanation: Senor Greenberg was very engaging in his teaching style and encouraged us to apply our knowledge to the real-world. This game is applying your knowledge of Spanish to a real-world situation.

## Core Gameplay Mechanics (Brief)

- Drag the correct item into the shopping basket.
- If the item is correct, it is crossed out on the list and you gain grandkid points.
- If the item is incorrect, a message will appear stating the name of the object that was attempted.
- Click on the location on the map to enter that store.
- Once all items on the list are collected, the player trades their grandkid points for cookies and then progresses to their next list.
- After you complete all the lists, you are reunited with your family for the big party you’re planning.

# Learning Aspects

## Learning Domains

Basic Spanish vocabulary

## Target Audiences

Beginning Spanish students who want to practice basic vocabulary. Ages could range widely, but anyone who is a beginner should find it helpful.

## Target Contexts

- This game can be utilized as free practice and independent study for a beginner Spanish class.
- Additionally, this could be used to review essential vocab before traveling to Spanish speaking countries.

## Learning Objectives

- By the end of the lesson, players will be able to identify the Spanish names for common household articles such as clothes and food.
- By the end of the lesson, players will be able to select an appropriate object given a description in Spanish.
- By the end of the lesson, players will be able to translate basic Spanish names for common household items into English.

## Prerequisite Knowledge

- Prior to the game, players need to know how to read basic words in Spanish and English.
- Prior to the game, players need to know which store common objects could be found in.

## Assessment Measures

*Describe how the learning will be assessed, e.g., pre/post multiple-choice test, or SAT, or some other instrument.*

*If proposing a new instrument, briefly and concisely list some example assessment questions.*

# What sets this project apart?

*Give some reasons why this game is not like every other game out there. Whether the learning objective is unique, the gameplay mechanics are new, or what. You should persuade the reader that your game is novel and worthy of development. Consider arguments that would be persuasive to a Venture Capitalist, Teacher, or Researcher. These might be focused on learning needs, too.*

- *Reason #1*
- *Reason #2*
- *Reason #3*
- *Reason #4*
- *etc.*

# Player Interaction Patterns and Modes

## Player Interaction Pattern

*Describe how people play your game, how many players are involved at once, how they interact with the system works, etc.*

## Player Modes

*Your game has one or more player modes. Describe each discrete mode, considering things like menus too. Generally describe the transitions between modes too.*

- *Player mode #1*: *Description*
- *Player mode #2*: *Description*
- *etc.*

# Gameplay Objectives

- *Primary Objective #1*:
    - Description: *Description*
    - Alignment: *Describe how this aligns with one or more learning objectives*
- *Primary Objective #2*:
    - Description: *Description*
    - Alignment: *Describe how this aligns with one or more learning objectives*
- *etc.*

# Procedures/Actions

*Describe the control scheme and what actions a user can take in the game.*

# Rules

*What resources are available to the player that they make use of?  How does this affect gameplay? How are these resources finite?*

# Objects/Entities

*What other things are in the world that you need to design? These may or may not directly translate to actual objects and classes.*

## Core Gameplay Mechanics (Detailed)

- *Core Gameplay Mechanic #1*: *Describe in 2 paragraphs or less, along with how it generally works*
- *Core Gameplay Mechanic #2*: *Describe in 2 paragraphs or less, along with how it generally works*
- *Core Gameplay Mechanic #3*: *Describe in 2 paragraphs or less, along with how it generally works*

    
## Feedback

*Explicitly describe what visual/audio/animation indicators there are that give players feedback on their progress towards their gameplay objectives (and ideally the learning objectives).*

*Describe what longer-term feedback you detect and give that guides the player in their learning and lets them know how they are doing in regards to the learning objectives.*

# Story and Gameplay

## Presentation of Rules

*Briefly describe how the player will learn the gameplay mechanics. Avoid using walls of text, since people will not read them. Think instead of natural ways of teaching mechanics iteratively and slowly.*

## Presentation of Content

*Briefly describe how the player will be taught the core material they are meant to learn. Avoid using walls of text, since people will not read them. Think instead of natural ways of teaching material iteratively and slowly.*

## Story (Brief)

*The Summary or TL;DR version of below*

## Storyboarding

*Go into as much detail as needs be to visually convey the Dynamics of your game. Be detailed. Create storyboards and freeze frame images that concisely capture important key elements of your game. You are strongly recommended to sketch pictures on paper and embed them here. Be sure make it clear how previously-described mechanics come through in the dynamics.*

# Assets Needed

## Aethestics

*Give a sense of the aesthetics of your game, the spirit and atmosphere. Use descriptive, evocative words that can help the reader understand the emotional response of your game.*

## Graphical

- Characters List
  - *Characters 1*
  - *Characters 2*
  - *...*
- Textures:
  - *Texture 1*
  - *Texture 2*
  - *...*
- Environment Art/Textures:
  - *Environment Texture 1*
  - *Environment Texture 2*
  - *...*


## Audio


*Game region/phase/time are ways of designating a particularly important place in the game.*

- Music List (Ambient sound)
  - *Game region/phase/time*: *Example 1*, *Example 2*
  - *Game region/phase/time*: *Example 3*, *Example 4*
  
*Game Interactions are things that trigger SFX, like character movement, hitting a spiky enemy, collecting a coin.*

- Sound List (SFX)
  - *Game Interaction*: *Example 1*, *Example 2*
  - *Game Interaction*: *Example 3*, *Example 4*


# Metadata

* Template created by Austin Cory Bart <acbart@udel.edu>, Mark Sheriff, Alec Markarian, and Benjamin Stanley.
* Version 0.0.3
